---
title: "Audio Enabled"
description:
  "The `AudioEnabledTrigger` and `AudioEnabledIndicator` components provide
  controls and visual cues for audio status during media broadcast."
---

`AudioEnabledTrigger` provides an interactive button for toggling audio on and
off, while `AudioEnabledIndicator` gives a visual representation of the current
audio state. These React components leverage `@radix-ui/react-presence` for
conditional rendering, ensuring accurate representation based on the audio
state.

## Introduction

### `AudioEnabledTrigger`

`AudioEnabledTrigger` acts as an interactive button, allowing broadcasters to
toggle audio enablement during the broadcast. It provides a way for broadcasters
to toggle the presence of microphone audio in their stream.

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for a button element.

### `AudioEnabledIndicator`

`AudioEnabledIndicator` offers a visual cue about the current audio state,
showing whether the audio is enabled or disabled. It can be configured to appear
only when audio is enabled or disabled, based on the `matcher` prop.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when true, ensures the component is always mounted. This is
particularly useful for managing animations with external animation libraries.

##### `matcher`

A prop intended to define the circumstances under which the
`AudioEnabledIndicator` should be visible. It can be a boolean that corresponds
directly to the audio state or a function that provides custom logic for
visibility determination based on the audio state.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `AudioEnabledTrigger` and
`AudioEnabledIndicator` components might be used within the broadcast interface:

```tsx
import * as Broadcast from "@livepeer/react/broadcast";

function BroadcastComponent() {
  return (
    <Broadcast.Root>
      <Broadcast.AudioEnabledTrigger>
        Toggle Audio
      </Broadcast.AudioEnabledTrigger>
      <Broadcast.AudioEnabledIndicator matcher={false}>
        {/* Visual cue for audio off state */}
      </Broadcast.AudioEnabledIndicator>
    </Broadcast.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `AudioEnabledTrigger` provides a button to toggle audio on or
off, and `AudioEnabledIndicator` displays a visual cue based on the audio state.

## Data Attributes

Both components assign several data attributes to their underlying elements to
reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility conditions.

### `AudioEnabledTrigger`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-audio-enabled-trigger`

Serves to identify the component's role within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-enabled`

Indicates the current audio state, `"true"` when audio is enabled and `"false"`
when it is disabled.

### `AudioEnabledIndicator`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-audio-enabled-indicator`

Identifies the component's role as a visual indicator of the audio state within
the broadcast interface.

#### `data-enabled`

Shows the current audio state, `"true"` when audio is enabled and `"false"` when
it is disabled.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the indicator, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible based on the `matcher` or audio state and `"false"` denoting
it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
