---
title: "Controls"
description:
  "The `Controls` component provides an interactive interface for control
  actions such as audio on/off, source settings, and more, specifically tailored
  for broadcast environments."
---

The `Controls` component is intended to contain interactive media control
actions like play, pause, and others. This React component utilizes
`@radix-ui/react-presence` for conditional rendering, ensuring it is displayed
properly based on the current media state, device capabilities, and broadcast
requirements.

## Introduction

### `Controls`

`Controls` acts as the interactive layer for media control actions within the
broadcast environment. It dynamically appears based on certain conditions such
as the media state, loading state, presence of errors, and the support for
WebRTC in the broadcasting device.

By default, it is shown when a user hovers over or interacts with the Container
element, similar to how controls are usually shown for most media players.

It is automatically hidden after a user interaction based on the `Root`
component's `autohide` property.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when set to true, ensures the component is always mounted. This
is particularly useful for managing animations with external animation libraries
and for ensuring the control's presence in dynamic broadcast scenarios.

##### `autoHide`

Optional. Sets the time to wait (in milliseconds) to auto-hide controls after a
user interaction, like mouse or touch event. Defaults to 3000. Set to 0 for no
hiding.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `Controls` component might be used
within a broadcasting interface:

```tsx
import * as Broadcast from "@livepeer/react/broadcast";

function BroadcastComponent() {
  return (
    <Broadcast.Root>
      <Broadcast.Controls>
        {/* Interactive control elements like audio on/off button, display media trigger, etc. */}
      </Broadcast.Controls>
    </Broadcast.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `Controls` provides an interactive layer within the broadcast
interface, where various control elements can be placed, adapting its visibility
based on the broadcast state and device capabilities.

## Data Attributes

The `Controls` component assigns several data attributes to its underlying
element to reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility
conditions.

### `Controls`

#### `data-livepeer-controls`

Serves to identify the component's role within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the controls. It's `"true"` when the controls
are currently visible (not hidden, not loading, no error present, and WebRTC is
supported), and `"false"` when they're not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
