---
title: "Enabled"
description:
  'The `EnabledTrigger` and `EnabledIndicator` components provide broadcasters
  with interactive controls and visual cues to manage the "enabled" state of the
  broadcast.'
---

The `EnabledTrigger` and `EnabledIndicator` components offer broadcasters an
interactive button (`EnabledTrigger`) to toggle the "enabled" state of the
broadcast and a visual representation (`EnabledIndicator`) of this state. These
React components utilize `@radix-ui/react-presence` for conditional rendering,
ensuring accurate display based on the broadcast's enabled state.

<Info>
  Toggling "enabled" turns WHIP WebRTC ingest on or off, which when "on" the
  Broadcast component will make a POST request with an SDP payload to the WHIP
  endpoint. When "off", it will stop sending data to the WebRTC ingest.
</Info>

## Introduction

### `EnabledTrigger`

`EnabledTrigger` acts as an interactive button, enabling broadcasters to toggle
the enabled state of their broadcast. It provides an intuitive control for
starting or stopping the broadcast stream.

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for a button element.

### `EnabledIndicator`

`EnabledIndicator` provides a visual cue regarding the enabled state of the
broadcast, indicating whether the broadcast is active. It can be configured to
appear only when the broadcast is enabled or disabled, based on the `matcher`
prop.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when true, ensures the component is always mounted. This is
particularly useful for managing animations with external animation libraries
and ensuring visibility during dynamic broadcast scenarios.

##### `matcher`

A prop intended to define the circumstances under which the `EnabledIndicator`
should be visible. It can be a boolean that directly corresponds to the enabled
state or a function providing custom logic for visibility determination based on
the enabled state.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `EnabledTrigger` and `EnabledIndicator`
components might be used within the broadcast interface:

```tsx
import * as Broadcast from "@livepeer/react/broadcast";

function BroadcastComponent() {
  return (
    <Broadcast.Root>
      <Broadcast.EnabledTrigger>Toggle Broadcast</Broadcast.EnabledTrigger>
      <Broadcast.EnabledIndicator matcher={true}>
        {/* Visual cue for broadcast active state */}
      </Broadcast.EnabledIndicator>
    </Broadcast.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `EnabledTrigger` provides a button to start or stop the
broadcast, and `EnabledIndicator` displays a visual cue based on the broadcast's
enabled state.

## Data Attributes

Both components assign several data attributes to their underlying elements to
reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility conditions.

### `EnabledTrigger`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-enabled-trigger`

Serves to identify the component's role within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-enabled`

Indicates the current broadcast state, `"true"` when broadcasting is enabled and
`"false"` when it is disabled.

### `EnabledIndicator`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-enabled-indicator`

Identifies the component's role as a visual indicator of the broadcast state
within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-enabled`

Shows the current broadcast state, `"true"` when broadcasting is enabled and
`"false"` when it is disabled.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the indicator, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible based on the `matcher` or broadcast state and `"false"`
denoting it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
