---
title: "Screenshare"
description:
  "The `ScreenshareTrigger` and `ScreenshareIndicator` components provide
  broadcasters with intuitive controls and visual cues for managing the
  screenshare state during a broadcast."
---

The `ScreenshareTrigger` and `ScreenshareIndicator` components offer
broadcasters an interactive button (`ScreenshareTrigger`) to toggle
screensharing on and off, and a visual representation (`ScreenshareIndicator`)
of the current screenshare state. These React components utilize
`@radix-ui/react-presence` for conditional rendering, ensuring accurate display
based on the screenshare state and device capabilities.

## Introduction

### `ScreenshareTrigger`

`ScreenshareTrigger` acts as an interactive button, enabling broadcasters to
start screenshare during their broadcast. This interacts with `getDisplayMedia`
behind the scenes to request a display screen, which is then replaces the
current camera source.

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for a button element.

### `ScreenshareIndicator`

`ScreenshareIndicator` offers a visual cue about the current screenshare state,
indicating whether screensharing is active. It can be configured to appear only
when screensharing is active or not, based on the `matcher` prop.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when true, ensures the component is always mounted. This is
particularly useful for managing animations with external animation libraries
and ensuring visibility during dynamic broadcast scenarios.

##### `matcher`

A prop intended to define the circumstances under which the
`ScreenshareIndicator` should be visible. It can be a boolean that directly
corresponds to the screenshare state or a function providing custom logic for
visibility determination based on the screenshare state.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `ScreenshareTrigger` and
`ScreenshareIndicator` components might be used within the broadcast interface:

```tsx
import * as Broadcast from "@livepeer/react/broadcast";

function BroadcastComponent() {
  return (
    <Broadcast.Root>
      <Broadcast.ScreenshareTrigger>
        Toggle Screenshare
      </Broadcast.ScreenshareTrigger>
      <Broadcast.ScreenshareIndicator matcher={true}>
        {/* Visual cue for screenshare active state */}
      </Broadcast.ScreenshareIndicator>
    </Broadcast.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `ScreenshareTrigger` provides a button to start or stop
screensharing, and `ScreenshareIndicator` displays a visual cue based on the
screenshare state.

## Data Attributes

Both components assign several data attributes to their underlying elements to
reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility conditions.

### `ScreenshareTrigger`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-screenshare-trigger`

Serves to identify the component's role within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-active`

Indicates the current screenshare state, `"true"` when screensharing is active
and `"false"` when it is not.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the trigger, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible (i.e., screensharing is supported) and `"false"` denoting it's
not visible.

### `ScreenshareIndicator`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-screenshare-indicator`

Identifies the component's role as a visual indicator of the screenshare state
within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-active`

Shows the current screenshare state, `"true"` when screensharing is active and
`"false"` when it is not.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the indicator, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible based on the `matcher` or screenshare state and `"false"`
denoting it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
