---
title: "Video Enabled"
description:
  "The `VideoEnabledTrigger` and `VideoEnabledIndicator` components provide
  broadcasters with interactive controls and visual cues to manage the video
  enabled state during a broadcast."
---

The `VideoEnabledTrigger` and `VideoEnabledIndicator` components provide
broadcasters an interactive button (`VideoEnabledTrigger`) to toggle the video
enabled state during the broadcast and a visual representation
(`VideoEnabledIndicator`) of this state. These React components utilize
`@radix-ui/react-presence` for conditional rendering, ensuring accurate display
based on the video enabled state.

## Introduction

### `VideoEnabledTrigger`

`VideoEnabledTrigger` enables broadcasters to toggle the video enabled state of
their broadcast. It provides a way for broadcasters to toggle the presence of
camera or display video in their stream.

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for a button element.

### `VideoEnabledIndicator`

`VideoEnabledIndicator` offers a visual cue about the current video enabled
state, indicating whether the video is active or not. It can be configured to
appear only when the video is enabled or disabled, based on the `matcher` prop.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when true, ensures the component is always mounted. This is
particularly useful for managing animations with external animation libraries
and ensuring visibility during dynamic broadcast scenarios.

##### `matcher`

A prop intended to define the circumstances under which the
`VideoEnabledIndicator` should be visible. It can be a boolean that directly
corresponds to the video enabled state or a function providing custom logic for
visibility determination based on the video state.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `VideoEnabledTrigger` and
`VideoEnabledIndicator` components might be used within the broadcast interface:

```tsx
import * as Broadcast from "@livepeer/react/broadcast";

function BroadcastComponent() {
  return (
    <Broadcast.Root>
      <Broadcast.VideoEnabledTrigger>
        Toggle Video
      </Broadcast.VideoEnabledTrigger>
      <Broadcast.VideoEnabledIndicator matcher={true}>
        {/* Visual cue for video active state */}
      </Broadcast.VideoEnabledIndicator>
    </Broadcast.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `VideoEnabledTrigger` provides a button to start or stop the
video stream, and `VideoEnabledIndicator` displays a visual cue based on the
video enabled state.

## Data Attributes

Both components assign several data attributes to their underlying elements to
reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility conditions.

### `VideoEnabledTrigger`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-video-enabled-trigger`

Serves to identify the component's role within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-enabled`

Indicates the current video enabled state, `"true"` when video is enabled and
`"false"` when it is disabled.

### `VideoEnabledIndicator`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-video-enabled-indicator`

Identifies the component's role as a visual indicator of the video enabled state
within the broadcast interface.

#### `data-enabled`

Shows the current video enabled state, `"true"` when video is enabled and
`"false"` when it is disabled.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the indicator, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible based on the `matcher` or video state and `"false"` denoting
it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
