---
title: "Play/Pause"
description:
  "The `PlayPauseTrigger` and `PlayingIndicator` components support interactive
  play/pause functionality and visual cues for the playback state."
---

The `PlayPauseTrigger` and `PlayingIndicator` components provide an interactive
play/pause button (`PlayPauseTrigger`) and a visual representation of the
playing state (`PlayingIndicator`). They use `@radix-ui/react-presence` for
conditional rendering, ensuring accurate representation based on the current
playback state.

## Introduction

### `PlayPauseTrigger`

`PlayPauseTrigger` acts as an interactive button, allowing users to toggle
between playing and pausing the media.

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for a button element.

### `PlayingIndicator`

`PlayingIndicator` offers a visual cue about the playing state of the media. It
can be persistently present in the DOM or configured to appear only when the
media is playing or paused, based on the `matcher` prop.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when true, ensures the component is always mounted. This is
particularly useful for controlling animations with external animation
libraries.

##### `matcher`

A prop intended to define the circumstances under which the `PlayingIndicator`
should be visible. It can be a boolean that directly corresponds to the playing
state or a function that provides custom logic for visibility determination
based on the playing state.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `PlayPauseTrigger` and
`PlayingIndicator` components might be used within the Player:

```tsx
import * as Player from "@livepeer/react/player";

function MediaPlayerComponent() {
  return (
    <Player.Root>
      <Player.PlayPauseTrigger>Toggle Play/Pause</Player.PlayPauseTrigger>
      <Player.PlayingIndicator matcher={true}>
        {/* Visual cue for actively playing state */}
      </Player.PlayingIndicator>
    </Player.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `PlayPauseTrigger` provides a button to toggle play/pause, and
`PlayingIndicator` displays a visual cue based on the playing state.

## Data Attributes

Both components assign several data attributes to their underlying elements to
reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility conditions.

### `PlayPauseTrigger`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-play-pause-trigger`

Serves to identify the component's role within the Player.

#### `data-playing`

Indicates the current playing state, `"true"` when the media is playing and
`"false"` when it is paused.

### `PlayingIndicator`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-play-pause-indicator`

Identifies the component's role within the Player.

#### `data-playing`

Shows the current playing state, `"true"` when the media is playing and
`"false"` when it is paused.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the indicator, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible based on the `matcher` or playing state and `"false"` denoting
it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
