---
title: "Poster"
description:
  "The `Poster` component provides a visual representation of the media before
  playback starts."
---

The `Poster` component is a visual element within the Player, displaying an
image that represents the media content before playback begins. This React
component ensures that the poster is displayed appropriately based on the media
state, leveraging `@radix-ui/react-presence` for conditional rendering.

<Info>
  When used with Livepeer's playback info API, `getSrc` will automatically parse
  any available poster images in the JSON response and pass them to `Poster`.
</Info>

## Introduction

### `Poster`

`Poster` displays an image, serving as a placeholder or preview of the media
content. It's shown until the media starts playing, and it can be configured to
be always present in the DOM or to display only when a specific poster source is
available.

By default, it uses any poster image pulled from the Root `src` prop. **It is
only conditionally rendered based on whether the img source exists - you must
handle hiding/showing the `Poster` based on whether the media is loaded and
playing.**

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for an image element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when set to true, ensures the component is always mounted. This
is particularly useful for managing animations with external animation
libraries.

##### `src`

A string representing the source URL of the poster image. If not provided, the
component tries to fetch the poster source from the media context.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `Poster` component might be used within
the Player:

```tsx
import * as Player from "@livepeer/react/player";

function MediaPlayerComponent() {
  return (
    <Player.Root>
      <Player.LoadingIndicator asChild matcher={false}>
        <Player.Poster src="url/to/your/optional/poster/image.jpg" />
      </Player.LoadingIndicator>
    </Player.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `Poster` displays an image from a custom provided `src` URL. If
`src` was not passed, it would instead parse any thumbnails from the Player.Root
`src` prop.

## Data Attributes

The `Poster` component assigns data attributes to its underlying element to
reflect the current state and visibility conditions.

### `Poster`

#### `data-livepeer-poster`

Serves to identify the component's role within the Player.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the poster, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible (i.e., the `src` or context-provided poster is available) and
`"false"` denoting it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
