---
title: "Volume"
description:
  "The `Volume` and `VolumeIndicator` provide interactive controls and visual
  cues for the volume level."
---

The `Volume` and `VolumeIndicator` components offer users interactive controls
to adjust the volume and provide visual indicators for the current volume level.
They utilize `@radix-ui/react-presence` for conditional rendering, ensuring they
are displayed properly based on device capabilities and user interactions.

## Introduction

### `Volume`

`Volume` serves as an interactive slider for users to control the media volume.
It's displayed only if the device supports volume changes. This is notably _not_
supported on iOS, and not shown on iOS Safari.

#### Props

The component accepts all props suitable for a slider element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when set to true, ensures the component is always mounted. This
is particularly useful for managing animations with external animation
libraries.

### `VolumeIndicator`

`VolumeIndicator` provides a visual cue for the current volume level and mute
state. It can be configured to appear under certain conditions, defined by the
`matcher` prop or the mute state.

#### Props

The component accepts all props appropriate for a div element, along with
specific props:

##### `forceMount`

A boolean that, when set to true, ensures the component is always mounted. This
is particularly useful for managing animations with external animation
libraries.

##### `matcher`

A prop intended to define the circumstances under which the `VolumeIndicator`
should be visible. It can be a boolean matching the mute state or a function
that provides custom logic for visibility determination based on the volume
level.

### Usage

Here's a generalized example of how the `Volume` and `VolumeIndicator`
components might be used within the Player:

```tsx
import * as Player from "@livepeer/react/player";

function MediaPlayerComponent() {
  return (
    <Player.Root>
      <Player.Volume className="relative mr-1 flex-1 group flex cursor-pointer items-center select-none touch-none max-w-[120px] h-5">
        <Player.Track>
          <Player.Range />
        </Player.Track>
        <Player.Thumb />
      </Player.Volume>
      <Player.VolumeIndicator matcher={false}>
        {/* Visual cue for muted */}
      </Player.VolumeIndicator>
    </Player.Root>
  );
}
```

In this example, `Volume` provides a slider for users to control the volume, and
`VolumeIndicator` displays a visual cue when the volume is muted.

## Data Attributes

Both components assign several data attributes to their underlying elements to
reflect the current state, user interactions, and visibility conditions.

### `Volume`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-volume`

Serves to identify the component's role within the Player.

#### `data-livepeer-muted`

Indicates the mute state, `"true"` if muted and `"false"` otherwise.

#### `data-livepeer-volume`

Shows the current volume as a percentage, e.g., `"50"` for 50% volume.

#### `data-visible`

Reflects the visibility status of the slider, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible (i.e., volume change is supported) and `"false"` denoting it's
not visible.

### `VolumeIndicator`

#### `data-livepeer-controls-volume-indicator`

Identifies the component's role within the Player.

#### `data-livepeer-muted`

Indicates the mute state, `"true"` if muted and `"false"` otherwise.

#### `data-livepeer-volume`

Shows the current volume as a percentage, e.g., `"50"` for 50% volume.

#### `data-visible`

Indicates the visibility status of the indicator, with `"true"` meaning it's
currently visible based on the `matcher` or mute state and `"false"` denoting
it's not visible.

This is often used for dynamically applying enter/exit CSS animations.
