---
title: Use Cases
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Use Cases

The Livepeer project is concerned with decentralizing one-to-many live video
broadcast (multicast). This is the truest form of media distribution, as it
allows a broadcaster to connect directly with their audience in a first-hand
manner, free from alterations, after-the-fact interpretation, and spin. It gives
everyone a platform to have a voice. Existing centralized solutions can suffer
from censorship, third party control over user data / relationship /
monetization, and inefficient cost structures around payment for the service.

Here are some of the logical use cases for applications and services to be built
on top of Livepeer.

## Video-centric Creator Platforms (“Twitch for X”)

Building a video-centric creator platform (think Twitch or Instagram Live) is
one of the most exciting types of consumer applications to build, but also one
of the most expensive using traditional cloud providers. The process costs
around $3 per stream per hour to a cloud service such as Amazon and up to $4500
per month for one media server. That's a lot! Building a creator platform
application on top of Livepeer reduces these costs by up to 50x through its
decentralized network of transcoding node operators (video miners).

If you’re interested in building your video-centric creator platform app on top
of Livepeer we recommend using a hosted Livepeer service such as
[Livepeer.com](https://livepeer.com) for an easy-to-use gateway API that
abstracts away a lot of the dev ops and engineering required to support this use
case.

## Transcoding infrastructure

One of the challenges of building consumer video services today such as Mux,
api.video, Vimeo OTT, or Wowza is scaling transcoding infrastructure to support
the demand for the growing number of streams needed to be transcoded.
Infrastructure developers who would otherwise have to continue provisioning
transcoding servers, licensing media servers, and efficiently manage resources
to handle spikes, can tap into the Livepeer transcoding network to automatically
scale to support any number of streams at a highly disruptive cost.

